clauses: clauses are used to structure or filter the query result
   i. order by : order by is used to keep results in an order(either ascending or descending order). by default it results 'ascending'
-- print all employees from "india"
-- alphabetically of their names
select * from employees
where country = 'india'
order by ename;

LIMIT: limit is used to limit the number of records to display after query
syntax: limit number;

-- print name,age of highest salary
-- employee
select ename,age,salary 
from employees
order by salary desc
limit 1;


offset : offset is used skip the records of data from the query results
syntax: offset number;
 -- print second highest salary
 -- employee details
 select * from employees
 order by salary desc
 limit 1
offset 1;



   

Group by: group by is used to group the records based on common field/column values. it is used for collective responses by using agrregate functions.
   // print list of genders available in students table
  select gender
  from students
  group by gender
Agreegate functions: agreegate functions are used mainly for collective data analysis
 i. count() : count is used to count total number of records available in that group
   // WAQ to print how many items sold per category
          select category,count(category)
          from ecommerce
          group by category
 2. sum() : sum is used to add all the values available for a particular group
   //WAQ to print total marks achieved by students
     based on their gender
 select gender, sum(smarks)
  from students
  group by gender
3. avg() : avg is used to print average of a column 
  from a particular group
 //WAQ to print average marks of students based
on their gender
select gender, avg(smarks)
  from students
  group by gender
4. max() : max is used to print maximum of a column froma particular group
WAQ to print maximum marks of students based 
on their score
select gender,max(smarks)
  from students
  group by gender

5. min(): min is used to print minimum value of a column from a particular group
/* WAQ to print minimum marks of students based on their gender */
 select gender,min(smarks)
  from students
  group by gender

6. Distinct:  distinct is used to get different records of data without duplication
WAQ to print total number of genders we have in students table
 select count(distinct gender)
  from students

7. string concat: string concat can be used to print
different values existed in each group
WAQ to print names of employees from different countries along with total country count
we use function names group_concat()












































