indexes are used to speed up data retrival operations on database tables. it works like books index allowing database to find rows quickly without scanning entire table or going row after row
 by default index will be created for primary key

 create index index-name on tablename(columnname)

 delete the index:
 drop index index-name

 indexes speed up where,order by,group by etc.., commands
 but over indexing slows down insert,delete,update.

 views:
   views are used as a virtual table based on the result of
   a SQL Query. it does not store data physically but provides a way to simplify complex queries 
   syntax: 
   create view viewname as query;
   it acts like abstract layer over tables.
   it provides security to the tables. views cannot have indexes

stored procedure: A stored procedure  is a precoompiled collection of SQL statements stored in the database. it can accept inputs as parameters and perform operations

it is used to improve performance and cache results in database
it's main use is code reusability

syntax: 
delimiter //
create procedure procedure_name(parameters)
begin
  query
end
//

call procedure_name(arguments)

eg:delimiter //
create procedure 
countryWise(c varchar(20))
begin
SELECT * FROM office.employees
where country=c;
end
// 
call countryWise("uk")
//create a stored procedure that accepts a value (salary amount) and
 it should print all employess having more salary than mentioned

  iv. functions:  functions in mysql also called stored functions. They are similar to stored procedures but they return a value.
delimiter //
  create function function_name() returns data_type
begin
    logic
  return value;
end
//



WAF that goes to each record/row and increase salary 
and return their sum

declare sumValues Decimal(10,2)
delimiter //
create function salaryUpdate() returns decimal(10,2)
   begin
     select sum(salary) into sumValues
     from employees
     return salary
end //

sumValues()


 vi. DCL commands: These commands are used to control that data such that it gives control over how data should be passed.

   The commands are grant and revoke
  grant is used to provide privilages to be granted. eg: select,insert,delete  etc..,
  revoke is used take the privilages to be granted. eg:
rolebased databases

vii. TCL : These commands are used to manage/control the transactions. every statement can itself a transaction.
set autocommit=false
i. rollback  : rollback is used to bring database of previous state
ii. commit: commit is used to save the database of current state and remove previous states permanently.
iii. savepoint: creates a savepoint within the transaction so that rollback will go to that particular point

Normalization:
        it is the process of organizing data in tables/databases to minimize data redundancy and improve data integrity
  1NF: Each cell in a table must contain atomic value
  2NF: Each nonkey attribute must depend on Primary key
  3NF: if a table is in 2NF and in case non key attribute depend on other values than primary key, split into smaller tables














































