MySQL commands are divided mainly as 4 sub languages
 i. DDL(data definition lanaguage): These commands help us to structure our database like create,alter,
rename,drop,truncate etc..,
 ii. DML(Data manipulation language): These commands help us to manipulate or update or delete our data.
eg: insert , update , delete etc..,
  These commands also contains sub part called
  DQL(data query language). its command is select which is used for
  queries
iii. DCL: data control language: These commands helps to control the
 data which user manipulates
  eg: grant, revoke etc..,
iv. TCL (Transaction control language) : These commands helps to control the transactions and undo the previous query
  eg: commit,rollback,savepoint etc..,


i. Data Definition Language:
      These commands are used to build the structure of database 
  a. create: create is used to create database,tables,views etc..,
      database - create database database-name;
      table -  create table table-name(column1 datatype,
      column2 datatype,column3 datatype .....)
 b. Rename: rename is used to rename the table,view etc..,
      rename table old-table-name to new-table-name
 c. alter: alter is used to add /modify/ delete columns from database table
      add column:
      alter table tableName add column-name datatype;
      add columns after a specific column:
      alter table tableName add column-name datatype after specific-column;
      rename/change column type:
      alter table tableName change old-column new-column new-datatype
      delete a column:
      alter table tableName drop column columnName;
 d. drop: drop is used to delete a table or column or database etc..,
      drop database database-name / drop table tableName
 e. truncate: truncate is used to delete only data, 
      truncate table tableName

2. DML commands(Data manipulation language):
    These commands are used to manipulate the database such as inserting data into tables,
updating data in tables, deleting data from tables etc..,

 i. insert  : insert command is used to insert the data in tables.
     insert into tablename values(col1Value,col2Value,col3Value....)
  we can even insert specific columns like
 insert into tablename(col1,col2,col3)
values (col1 value, col2 value, col3 value);

ii. update: 
To update a particular data/field in mySql, we can use 'update' command. it is often used with 
'set' command to assign a value and ' where' clause to specify the column
 for first time, you might encounter following error:
Error Code: 1175. You are using safe update mode and you tried to update a table without a WHERE that uses a KEY column. 
 To disable safe mode, toggle the option in Preferences -> SQL Editor and reconnect.    0.000 sec
solution: edit --> preferences--> sql editor --> save update uncheck --> ok
solution 2 : set sql_safe_updates = false


Delete :  delete is used to delete a specific data/field of a
 record in a table
  delete from tablename
  where condition

DML commands also suggest a special command which is used to read the data called "DQL(data query language)
 eg: select

select *
from tablename

The above command will list all data of records in a
specific table

we can get specific columns using select
select col1,col2...
from tablename

we can get specific records of data by using where clause


















































